Spring is a very popular open source
framework in the Java EE space in this
lecture I will introduce you to what
spring is and why it is so popular
spring is a dependency injection
mechanism that is if Class A depends on
Class B instead of we creating the
instance of class B in class A we will
simply ask spring to do it so spring
will come in and it will create an
instance of B and it will then inject
that instance into class A either
through a constructor or setter methods
that we provide so when we create a
constructor we'll make sure that the
constructor of A can take an instance of
B or when we create a instead of
creating a constructor we can create a
setter method on Class A where we can
set an instance of class B and then we
can start using that instance of class B
everywhere in the methods of A so that
is called dependency injection so that
we can focus on the business logic we
need not worry how to create a huge
object or how to instantiate an object
it is very complicated to do that it is
also called an IOC container inversion
of control container because it is
taking away this responsibility of
creating instances from our code to the
container itself so spring is also kind
of a mini container which runs on other
application servers that is the reason
it is called inversion of control
container it took away the control from
our code onto itself spring also does
several cool things in the Java EE space
but before we go there strings can wire
all the layers within a java ee
application typically we have a UI layer
we have a service layer we have a dao
layer we also have web services layers
integration JMS layer and so on so
spring can be used to wire these layers
together so we can create a DAO inject
the DAO into a service using spring we
will create a service and inject that
service into the UI layer
using spring so we simply tell spring to
do it and it will do it for us provided
we give it a constructor or a setter
method to do it we can also simply use
auto wiring you will see all that in
action in the next few lectures along
with dependency injection spring also
provides several cool things like spring
jdbc so the spring community the open
source community if they feel that there
is something in the open source world
that is slightly sophisticated to use
they will try to simplify things for us
it will they will add one more layer
over that sophistication and we can use
it in our application to build our
applications so jdbc they make they make
usage of jdbc very using easy through
spring jdbc similarly spring MVC they
have seen several MVC frameworks like
struts which are slightly sophisticated
to use and maintain so Spring has come
up with their own version of
implementing MVC framework for web
applications or the web layer spring MVC
can also be used to implement a restful
web services spring ORM support
string has beautiful or great support
for tools like hibernate jpa etc so it
will make our job of using hibernate and
JPA tools very easy spring integration
this is similar to how we do JMS so
Spring has an implementation on how to
put messages on to queues and topics
spring web services we can implement soap
based services using the spring Web
Services module so all these are
additional things in addition to
dependency injection that spring
community provides so in the next few
lectures it will come up with a spring
application string maven project you
will create a services layer and you
will create a dao layer and then you
will test it using j unit mockito and
support of spring test so the main thing
here is spring test I want to show you
how you can test your spring based
applications using this combination here.